Best practices migration (#1443)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/collections/_documentation/guides/migration/index.md

---
title: Moving on Up - Switch to Hosted Sentry
sidebar_order: 6
---

Sentry offers a hosted cloud solution in addition to an open-source one, both are functionally the same. Despite open-source being a core value for us at Sentry, it isn't necessarily recommended for everyone. As Sentry evolves, many customers are finding out that hosting Sentry on-premise can quickly become expensive to maintain, scale, and support, making our SaaS product, the better and less costly option.

> For more information take a look at our post on [Self Hosted or Cloud Sentry?](https://sentry.io/_/resources/about-sentry/self-hosted-vs-cloud/)

Reviewer: Just read this: https://xscode.com/686/open-source-is-free-but-expensive/

Might be worth referencing it too as this is written by an independent party. We can also refer to this from the "self-hosted vs cloud" page.

## How to Migrate

### 1. Sign up

Before you begin the migration process, [sign up](https://sentry.io/signup/) for a new organization in Sentry.

![Sign Up]({% asset guides/migration/01.png @path %})

Once you complete the onboarding steps, grab your **org slug** from the browser URL or under `Settings > General Settings`. We'll need this info to know where to migrate your data to.

![Org Slug]({% asset guides/migration/02.png @path %})

> Note: You can modify your org slug in the org settings.

### 2. Choose a plan

Take a look at our [plans](https://sentry.io/pricing/) and select one that suits your needs based on the different features and capabilities. Notice that plan pricing varies based on the type of _Contract_ and _Monthly Event Volume_, so make sure you are familiar with your current/expected monthly usage (number of events per month).

If you're expecting higher volumes or interested in our Enterprise capabilities (priority support and SLAs, single-tenant options, etc.), please [contact us](https://sentry.io/contact/enterprise/) regarding our **Enterprise Plan**.

### 3. Export your data

> Sentry open-source installs a [Command-Line](https://docs.sentry.io/server/cli/) script that allows you to perform various operations that are unachievable within the web UI. One of those is `export`, exporting your data into a transport JSON.

Reviewer: Since you are only referring to the Docker-based command, it may make more sense to say the following:
```suggestion
Sentry open-source provides a [command line interface](https://docs.sentry.io/server/cli/) that allows you to perform various operations that are unachievable within the web UI. One of those is `export`, exporting your data into a transport JSON.
```

Reviewer: I think "installs" was not accurate here as there won't be a `sentry` command with the Docker-based install as we discussed earlier.

Run the following command in your terminal to start the export script and redirect the output (_containing_ the transport JSON) to a file:

>     $ docker-compose run --rm web export > sentry_export.txt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ docker-compose run --rm web export > sentry_export.json
```

Author: I changed it to *.txt as the output contains the JSON object + log outputs...

Reviewer: I'll try to fix those log lines. It should still be `json` I'd say. @mattrobenolt?

    
> This invokes the sentry CLI `export` command on a new isolated instance of our Docker web container.

> ### 4. Contact us

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Ship it to us
```

> To kick-off the migration process shoot us an email with the following details at <support@sentry.io>:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To kick-off the migration process, shoot us an email at <support@sentry.io> with the following details:
```

- Email Subject: `Self-Hosted Migration Application`
- Your **organization slug**
- Your **selected plan**. If you're unsure, let us know. We'll be happy to help you make the right decision. Also, if you think you'll need an Enterprise plan we can connect you with the right person to discuss that plan.

> - Attach the **export output** containing the transport JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Attach or link to the **sentry_export.json** file.
```

> Alternatively, you can also reach out to us through [Switch to Hosted Sentry](https://sentry.io/from/self-hosted/)

Reviewer: Maybe we should promote this over the e-mail as reading those steps make me cringe a bit (feels cumbersome, especially the way we ask people to share the export file with us).

One thing to note is that we won't be able to transfer over historical event data, but new incoming events will populate the projects in your new organization. You will also need to re-invite all your members and add them to the correct teams.

## How to Migrate

### 1. Sign up

Before you begin the migration process, [sign up](https://sentry.io/signup/) for a new organization in Sentry.

![Sign Up]({% asset guides/migration/01.png @path %})

Once you complete the onboarding steps, grab your **org slug** from the browser URL or under `Settings > General Settings`. We'll need this info to know where to migrate your data to.

![Org Slug]({% asset guides/migration/02.png @path %})

> Note: You can modify your org slug in the org settings.

### 2. Choose a plan

Take a look at our [plans](https://sentry.io/pricing/) and select one that suits your needs based on the different features and capabilities. Notice that plan pricing varies based on the type of _Contract_ and _Monthly Event Volume_, so make sure you are familiar with your current/expected monthly usage (number of events per month).

> If you're expecting higher volumes or interested in our Enterprise capabilities (priority support and SLAs, single-tenant options, etc.), please [contact us](https://sentry.io/contact/enterprise/) regarding our **Enterprise Plan**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're expecting higher volumes or you're interested in our Enterprise capabilities (priority support and SLAs, single-tenant options, etc.), please [contact us](https://sentry.io/contact/enterprise/) regarding our **Enterprise Plan**.
```

### 3. Export your data

Sentry open-source provides a [command line interface](https://docs.sentry.io/server/cli/) that allows you to perform various operations that are unachievable within the web UI. One of those is `export`, exporting your data into a transport JSON.

Run the following command in your terminal to start the export script and redirect the output (_containing_ the transport JSON) to a file:

    $ docker-compose run --rm web export > sentry_export.json
    
> This invokes the sentry CLI `export` command on a new isolated instance of our Docker web container.

### 4. Ship it to us

> To kick-off the migration process contact to us through [Switch to Hosted Sentry](https://sentry.io/from/self-hosted/). Once we get your request, one of our support reps will reach out though a support ticket to get the following details:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To kick-off the migration process, contact us through [Switch to Hosted Sentry](https://sentry.io/from/self-hosted/). Once we get your request, one of our support reps will reach out through a support ticket to get the following details:
```

Reviewer: Requested changes for the small typo here: tough -> through

- Your **Organization slug**.

> - **Selected plan**. If you're unsure, let us know. We'll be happy to help you make the right decision. Also, if you think you'll need an Enterprise plan we can connect you with the right person to discuss that plan.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Selected plan**. If you're unsure, let us know. We'll be happy to help you make the right decision. Also, if you think you'll need an Enterprise plan, we can connect you with the right person to discuss details.
```
